Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you a sci-fi, thriller film
from 2018, titled Replicas.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
A helicopter carrying a precious load flies
onto the island of Arecibo, Puerto Rico.
William is waiting in his office for the cargo
to arrive.
The helicopter lands on the property of Bionyne
Industries and instantly the entire facility
is being informed of its arrival.
William joins Scott and Margaret as they walk
toward the experimental laboratory.
He asks them if the donor has signed the necessary
documents.
Ed hears the announcement, grabs his things
and heads on there as well.
The donor is being placed and unpacked in
the laboratory next to a robot body.
William and Ed talk about the details of the
donors death, then proceed with the experiment.
Ed checks the donor's cortex activity and
declares him to be viable.
William concurs with the findings and tells
everyone that his biological brain will be
replicated inside of a synthetic brain.
He tells Ed to begin the process.
The neural probe designed to perform the task
is engaged and the process of transferring
the soldier's brain begins.
William initiates the neural imprint and works
on the application of the human mind onto
the synthetic one.
He activates all of the functions of the mind
and tells Margaret to energize the body.
The replica awakens and William addresses
it by name as it starts moving.
It asks who he is and William explains that
he has transitioned into a synthetic brain.
While coming online, it begins to freak out
and rip itself apart, tearing out part by
part, until William shuts the subject down.
William speaks to Jones about the progress
they've just had.
Jones isn't impressed that the subject spoke
for the first time and tells him that they
need bigger results to hold onto the shareholders
of the company.
William tells him that his family had made
too many sacrifices for his life's work.
He promises Jones that he is very close to
a breakthrough.
Later, William drives home and meets his wife
Mona in front of the house packing the car
for a trip.
He rushes inside and sees that his kids Matt,
Zoey and Sophie aren't packed yet either.
Ed walks into their house and Sophie gives
him her pet fish, telling him not to overfeed
him.
He asks William if he talked to Jones and
if he got fired yet.
Mona overhears them talking as Ed explains
that the subject ripped itself apart.
However, William interrupts him and tells
her that it spoke.
She says that if it could speak then it could
also feel and that he shouldn't bring people
from the dead until he works everything out.
Since, Mona is a doctor she doesn't like that
people might be suffering in his trials.
They pack the car and he tells her that he's
on the verge of a breakthrough, but something
is preventing the synthetic to achieve consciousness.
Mona says that they might be missing a soul.
William doesn't think so, saying that it's
all neurochemistry.
She hates his answer and tells him that maybe
he's loosing sight of what's right and wrong.
Ed greets them off.
Later, they're driving in the rain and almost
hit a truck.
It's a close call but they're fine.
Suddenly, a tree hits the car and kills Mona,
then William drives off a cliff and into the
water.
He regains consciousness and checks if anyone
is alive.
No one, apart from him, has survived the crash.
William doesn't call an ambulance, but instead
he called Ed.
He's brought their equipment there and follows
William to the bodies.
William asks him to help him, but Ed thinks
that they should call the police.
Eventually, Ed changes his mind and helps
William transfer the minds of his family into
the equipment.
They get to the facility and Ed tells him
that there is a reason why he hasn't made
human clones yet, because they never turn
out right.
He asks William if he's prepared to terminate
the process if something goes wrong.
William doesn't give a straight answer, he
just wants to do it.
Ed shows him the pods in which he could replicate
the bodies, but he's worried that William
still hasn't perfected the process of transferring
the mind.
They get to the bodies and William pleads
with Ed not to share what has happened to
anyone, furthermore, he asks him to get rid
of the bodies.
He agrees and tells him that he'll meet him
back at the house.
When Ed arrives there, he opens the truck
and William sees that there are only 3 pods
to make the bodies.
He can't choose which member of his family
to resurrect so he writes their names on a
piece of paper and asks Ed to pick.
He refuses to do that as well and William
needs to choose himself.
The paper he's taken out of the bowl is Zoey.
Later, Ed explains to him how he should take
care of the pods and how to maintain the chemical
balance inside, but the most important thing
is to maintain the energy in the pods.
They must never go out of power.
William however doesn't have a backup generator,
so he finds a lot of car batteries and attaches
them to the pods.
Ed tells him the clones will need 17 days
to come out and he has until then to give
them consciousness.
He asks him what will happen to Zoey.
William says that he'll delete her memory
from their drives and they'll never remember
her.
Later, he's seen deleting the memory of Zoey
from the minds of the others.
But, the hard drive with her consciousness
is still active.
A few days later, Ed is at work and runs into
Jones, who asks him about William not showing
up for work.
He lies about why he's not there, then Jones
tells him to inform him that if they don't
see progress with the synthetic soon, they
will get shut down.
Ed calls William to tell him that, saying
that if they get shut down, the company will
look for the expensive equipment that is now
in his possession.
William tells him that he needs to come to
the house and watch the pods so he can go
to work.
As soon as he settles at work Jones pays him
a visit and doesn't seem too concerned that
he might be sick.
On his desk he sees Zoey's drawing and when
he goes back home he has it with him.
As he's walking to his front door he runs
into Matt's teacher who has come to check
up on him because he hasn't been to school
in five days.
Ed has handled that situation by telling her
that the boy has chicken pox.
Then he asks William why he hasn't called
the kids school and Mona's work to tell them
something, as if he was expecting that no
one would notice his entire family disappear.
Later, he takes out all of their laptops and
phones.
He uses them to email the kids school and
also to text with his children’s friends,
making it look like they're still alive.
Meanwhile, Margaret is overseeing the reparations
on the robot body.
William is working from home, trying to find
a way to transfer the mind from one body to
another.
He runs an unsuccessful simulation and is
beginning to lose hope.
The clones are almost ready.
Ed keeps covering him at work and he keeps
running one simulation after another.
17 days since the accident, Ed comes to William's
house to get the clones out of the pods.
William tells him that he's not ready yet
because he doesn't know why the last experiment
failed.
Ed explains that every moment they stay in
the pods they continue to age so waiting for
him to figure it out isn't an option.
William decides to sedate them so he could
keep their minds in a blank state.
Ed tells him that he can only keep them sedated
for 72 hours and no more.
They start draining his wife's pod and she
starts breathing by herself.
William sedates her instantly.
Ed is excited that their experiment worked.
Later, they set up IV's for the clones and
Ed leaves, saying he'll come back tomorrow
to check up on them.
William continues to go through the footage
of the previous experiment and still has no
clue why it failed.
That night, he's ready to terminate his wife,
when he gets a call from Jones.
As he's talking to him he notices that each
time he touches Mona's clone, her heartbeat
goes up.
When Ed arrives to the house, William tells
him that he's figured it all out.
He takes him up to Mona and shows him what
he's found out.
Then he explains that the reason why the brain
transfer doesn't work is because it's not
in its own body.
When they put it in a synthetic brain the
mind freaks out when it can't find its own
flesh.
The solution to the problem of transferring
the mind into a synthetic one is to trick
it into thinking that it's in its own body.
And it should be even simpler with his family
because the bodies are their clones.
They get ready to initiate the process of
transferring Mona's mind into the body of
the clone.
William coordinates the uploading process,
then initiates the imprint.
When it's done, Ed freaks out that nothing
is happening, when she suddenly begins to
convulse.
She wakes up and recognizes him, so he puts
her back to sleep until he does the same with
the kids and prepares the house for them.
At the end of the day, after all of it is
done, Ed leaves and tells him that they'll
see each other at work.
William gets back to the house and begins
to clean it up and get rid of the evidence
of everything that happened.
Lastly, he needs to get rid of all of Zoe's
things and make it look like she never existed.
He packs all of her things and throws them
away.
Later that night, he lies down in bed next
to his wife.
William wakes up the next day and finds Mona
gone.
When he rushes downstairs he sees them all
having breakfast like nothing has ever happened.
Mona says that she feels great and goes out
for a run.
The kids ask for pancakes and he makes some
for them.
Mona is jogging when she suddenly gest an
ache in her abdomen.
When she gets back, Sophie pours milk in a
cup and they see that it's curdled.
Mona says that she just got it the other day.
William gets a call from Ed, telling him that
they have an incoming donor at work and that
if he doesn't want their secret exposed he
should be there.
He tells the clone family that he has to leave
for work and they don't see anything wrong
about that, but Mona does find his behavior
strange.
William gets to work.
Him and Ed are preparing the donor for the
transfer, but he deems him non-viable because
he doesn't want to make another one go through
the phase of rejection again and the suffering
that it might bring.
Jones is breathing down their necks and Ed
is upset that they didn't do it.
William gets the idea to transfer his own
mind into the synthetic brain, so he takes
the transfer equipment to the toilet and performs
the transference protocol on himself.
Meanwhile, Sophie and Mona look for their
cell phones and they can't find them anywhere.
Mona feels strange.
Back at the facility, William finds Ed and
tells him what he did.
He explains that he will write an algorithm
which will help bridge his imprint to the
artificial body, effectively tricking the
synthetic brain that the body is his.
The added benefit of it being him inside that
body will be that he will be able to establish
himself as the baseline for the transferred
consciousness.
William gets back home that night and finds
Mona upset, immediately telling him that she
feels like something is wrong with her.
She can't remember a lot of things that happened
during the past few weeks.
He comforts her and tells her that she should
rest.
He goes to the basement and writes the algorithm.
The drive with his consciousness is sat next
to Zoey's.
Later, Sophie has a nightmare about her mom
dying and calls for her, but William comes
in her room and tells her that she just had
a bad dream.
He takes her back to the basement and overwrites
her memory so that it excludes the memory
of them dying.
Mona catches him there and asks what he's
done to Sophie.
She wants to know the truth.
William tells her that he brought them back
from the dead.
They have a conversation later on and she
asks him how he could do that.
He tells her that he couldn't bear loosing
them and that he had to do it.
She understands.
The next day, the family meets with Ed at
the market.
Mona thinks she sees something and almost
remembers Zoey.
They have dinner together that night and William
asks them if they should move back home.
Sophie asks who Zoey is, telling him that
the name is scribbled in her closet with a
crayon.
The three of them begin remembering little
bits about her and Mona confronts William
about it.
He tries to lie to her, but she sees right
through him.
Suddenly, the doorbell rings.
William opens the door for Jones who greets
Mona and asks for a quick word with him.
He tells him that he knows everything about
what he has done and calls his family subjects
of the trial in possession of the company.
Jones isn't ready to have them walking around
like everything is normal, fearing the consequences
if someone finds out about them.
William tries to negotiate with him by telling
him that he knows how to get the synthetic
brain to work.
Unfortunately, Jones isn't after that.
He explains that the company isn't even a
bio-medical one, but is actually part of the
weapons industry.
Jones has another plan for his findings.
He tells him to give him the algorithm then
say goodbye to his family.
William goes to get the algorithm and Jones
texts two assassins to get ready.
When he gets back, he tries to drug Jones,
but just ends up knocking him out.
He destroys the algorithm and explains everything
about Zoey to Mona and about the company that
he works for.
William tells her that they need to run.
They get into the car and escape before the
assassins realize what is happening.
Jones wakes up and sees the destroyed algorithm,
realizing that it's unsalvageable.
One of his men comes in and shows him the
tracker they have on the family.
He tells him not to shoot them in the head.
Simultaneously, a car starts chasing the family,
ramming into them.
They quickly manage to escape.
William tells Mona that the trackers are inside
of them, attached to the central nervous system
and that they can't get them out.
Mona has another idea about that and tells
him to drive to the clinic where she works.
When they arrive, Mona gets them in a room
and tells Sophie to get on the bed as she
prepares a defibrillator.
She explains that she can fry the trackers
that way.
Meanwhile, the assassins arrive at the hospital
and see that one tracker goes dark.
Mona places the defibrillator on Matt's chest
next and shocks him.
The assassins kill the security guard, as
William is getting ready to shock Mona.
Her tracker disappears and the assassins don't
find them.
The family escapes the hospital.
Jones calls someone.
William has driven them to the marina and
goes to check if he can get to Ed's boat.
While he looks for the keys, the assassins
arrive at the marina and grab the kids and
Mona.
He sees them being taken away but doesn't
get to them in time.
Ed is at the office and Jones hands him back
his boat keys as Mona and the kids are being
taken inside.
He tells Mona that William just needs to cooperate
and that everything will be alright.
She says that they'll just kill them.
Meanwhile, William arrives at the facility.
Ed explains how everything with Jones went
down, telling her that he was in on it from
the very beginning.
William walks in and Ed apologizes to him.
Then he tries to negotiate with Jones, who
kills Ed to make his threats more powerful.
William recreates the algorithm for Jones
and begins the imprinting process inside of
the synthetic brain.
He energizes the body without anyone's knowledge.
It begins to move and breaks through it's
restraints.
William goes back to Jones and gives him the
algorithm.
Just as Jones is getting ready to kill Mona,
the robot walks inside, saying that he's there
to protect his family.
The assassins shoot at him, but it tears through
them like butter.
The family gets in the car and is prepared
to leave, but William can't just leave the
robot behind.
Mona tells him to go.
He stops it from killing Jones right at the
nick of time.
The two of them converse and the robot says
that the body feels like it's his own.
Jones tells him that even if they kill him,
the company will still go after them.
William and the robot offer Jones a deal that
he can't refuse.
The robot tells him that he should go with
the family and that it should stay back and
deal with Jones.
It makes an imprint out of Jones's mind.
17 days later, a clone is ready to get out
of it's pod.
The family is having a vacation on a beach
and William brings Zoey to them.
Mona embraces her fondly.
Some time later, Jones is in Dubai selling
William's invention to a rich old man.
The robot is the one that does the work for
Jones.